VehiCool
==================

Developed by Jerry Hsiung and Perry Holen

for Client Team of

Maury Quijada, Angela Chin, and Trang Vy

VehiCool - Introduction
==================
VehiCool is an app that allows car enthusiasts and travelers to keep track of all the license plates
they see on the road or in their travels. Our app allows the user to quickly line-up and snap a
photo of a license plate using their android device's back camera, and then tag the plate with
useful information. The user can then search and view all of their stored plates to enjoy their
growing collection of funny, exotic, or faraway license plates.

Using VehiCool
==================
Opening the app first loads a splash-screen that contains a logos and our names as developers.
After a short delay, the splash-screen fades away to the camera preview page. The app employs
fragments that allows activities to be accessed by tabs in the top bar. This allows smooth
transitions between pages and appears as if no new activities are opened. We found this to feel
much smoother and less disruptive to the flow of the app.

The camera page uses an active preview from the back camera on the device and before displaying it,
draws a guidance overlay onto the preview. The overlay is a translucent grey border with a clear
rectangular center. The clear center has green corner markings and denotes the area of the preview
that should be aligned with the plate. Upon taking a picture, the application crops the photo to
only include what is inside the clear center. It then runs text recognition on the photo and
passes the photo's directory address along with any recognized text to the tagging page.

Quick Install
==================
The easiest way to install the app is by cloning the repository and compiling the files with your
favortite android editor. This can be done with the following command:

	git clone https://github.com/shsiung/CS121-LicensePlate.git

The app requires use of a training set for tesseract that needs to be uploaded to the device storage.
Please follow the steps below:

1. Go to the following address and download the [training set](https://code.google.com/p/tesseract-ocr/downloads/list.) for your language.
2. Unzip the file and then rename the directory tesseract-ocr to tesseract_languages 
3. Then upload the training set to your device done with the following command.
	

		adb /push your-path-to-tesseract_languages/ /mnt/sdcard/

Directory Overview
==================
- Main Directory (CS121-License Plate)
	- VehiCool source files 
		- Test files
		- Main source files
			- Java files
			- Resource files
				- Drawables bitmaps 
				- Layout files
	- openCV library files 
	- tesseract library files

Third Party Libraries
==================
VehiCool uses several open source third party libraries, including:

- For map displaying, we use [Google Map API v2](https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/android/).
- For text recognition, we use [Tesseract](https://code.google.com/p/tesseract-ocr/).
- For image processing, we use [OpenCV for Android](http://opencv.org/platforms/android.html).
- For Android testing, we use [Robotium](https://code.google.com/p/robotium/).

License
=======

VehiCool is licensed with modified BSD license. In plain language: you're allowed to do whatever
you wish with the code, modify, redistribute, embed in your products (free or commercial), but you
 must include copyright, terms of usage and disclaimer as stated in the license, the same way as
 any other BSD licensed code. You can of course use documentation generated by VehiCool for your
 products (free or commercial), but you must attribute VehiCool either in documentation itself or
 other appropriate place such as your website.

Copyright (c) 2014, Jerry Hsiung & Perry Holen
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
  list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
  and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.



The License Plate Project for CS121
